# Week Six Reflection

Well, I'm just about ready to start week Six here at The Iron Yard, and it feels pretty great. I go back and forth between being amazed at how fast time has gone, and feeling like I've been coding forever. Maybe it's a combination of the long hours and the dedication. I have had some dreams of coding, after all. Early on, I had one about a gentleman demanding a chessboard. This weekend, I built a chessboard. Take that, dream guy! There are a few things right off the bat that I'm looking forward to this week. The first of those is working with the Ruby on Rails class. We've been gearing up for that for a bit now, and to actually get together with the Back End and make something stand-alone and functional - that's really exciting.


## Things I've learned

I'd like to talk about a few things that I've learned while here. While I had spent some time on Code School and Codecademy (both fantastic starter resources), there have been whole new levels of code that I hadn't realized until now. jQuery opened up great new ways to access and manipulate the DOM, and that's been so instrumental in creating easy to read code that's accessible and functional. It's also been quite interesting playing with all the framework structures that exist out there. Bootstrap is a great way to shortcut all the CSS work that we've been putting in. Now that we know how to do it without Bootstrap, having that around has definitely increased the time I get to spend on the JavaScript. Sass has done the same thing - I'm not relying on it too much, but nesting elements and having Sass automatically write the appropriate CSS has been really great. Again, time saving measure that allows me to spend more time on the functionality of the site, and less time on the looks of the site.

## Challenges Faced

Challenges? So many. I think one of the biggest issues that I've faced has been myself. I'm used to doing pretty well in the traditional education model, and The Iron Yard is pretty far removed from that model. For five weeks, I've been behind and struggling. For five weeks, I've felt like there's not enough time in the day. I'm also used to being able to work things out on my own. Being independent is one of the traits I pride myself in. Then there's the persistence of my Fixed Mindset. There's been a lot of personal growth over the last few weeks, in addition to all of the learning that I've been privileged to absorb.

## Progress Being Made

As to what specifically that progress is: I have started to remind myself daily to put time into thinking of the growth mindset. The biggest moments of learning have all come when something broke, and I thought: that's interesting, lets figure out what's happening with this. This helps circumvent some of the frustration that I've felt, as well as stopping the death spiral of 'I don't belong here, this is really hard, maybe I should coast, maybe I should do something else'. Finding that balance is very important.

This also ties into asking for help at the appropriate time. It's important to try and work through issues on my own - the most learning happens when I research a subject thoroughly. Sometimes it leads me to a breakthrough. Sometimes I get stumped hard. Either way, learning has happened. The trick is to catch myself looping through the same resources, and not finding answers. At this point, asking for help is very important. There's definitely a line between finding something out on my own, and spending too much time on one thing, when there's a whole lot of other options out there.

Finally, I've discovered the importance of being compassionate to myself. I would get down on myself for not meeting personal goals, and that pressure would carry through to other areas of my life. It limited me in several different ways. Through this course, I'm starting to learn that it's ok to struggle, and it's ok to fail. It's ok to fight a problem and lose, as long as I take a swing at it the next day. As long as I'm looking to get help, as long as I'm taking positive strides, it's ok. The Growth mindset v the Fixed mindset really plays a large part in this. Making the transition has been tricky, but I'm very happy with what I'm doing now, and optimistic for where I'll end up. The Iron Yard has been very tough. The degree of difficulty has brought me face to face with the need to do some personal improvements. I'm excited about the changes, and I look foward to seeing what else will happen over the next 6 weeks.
